How you doing David?
Hey, how's it going? Good. How you doing?
I'm awesome. All right. Are you at least 18 and are you a believer?
I am both. Awesome. And which God do you believe in?
I believe in the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, Yahuwah.
Okay. Do you believe in Jesus?
I do.
Okay. So also there's like some radio or TV in the background. Can you turn that down?
That's football.
Yeah. Can you turn it down?
I mean, you can definitely watch it, but we don't need to hear it.
Also, I forgot to set my lineup today. I hope I don't have anyone injured playing.
My goodness. I'll be in a lot of trouble if I've got an injury on my lineup.
It's the Lions and Texans. Nobody's getting injured.
All right. So what's your most convincing evidence or argument for why the Christian God is real?
The Word itself is the evidence because the Word is inspired by God.
And how do you know that to be the case?
When Moses wrote the first five books of the Bible, he was inspired by God when he wrote it.
He wrote it through direct testimony of the people that were actually in the lineage when the things happened in the book.
How do you know that Moses wrote it?
If you read the first five books of the Torah or the Bible, it tells you that he wrote it.
Actually, it doesn't. Can you give me that citation?
Because there's a bunch of passages that clearly make it impossible for him to write it.
So, for example, Genesis 14, 14.
When Abraham heard that his nephew had been taken captive, he led forth his trained men, born in his house, 318 of them, and went in pursuit as far as Dan.
Where is Dan, according to the Bible?
Dan is where it's now Syria.
Yep. It's at the edge of Syria. It's like the northernmost tribe.
And when was Dan established?
What's your name?
When was Dan established?
I'm going to answer that. What's your name?
Yohannes.
Yohannes. Are you the only Yohannes that's ever been born?
We're talking about a region.
I got that. Are you the only Yohannes that's ever been born?
Yep.
Is there any other person on the earth named Yohannes?
Oh, yeah.
Is it possible?
So you're assuming that Dan, who is a child of Israel, Jacob, is the same Dan that they're pertaining to?
No, it's not a person. It's a location.
It's a location named after a person.
And when did that person live?
Obviously before Abraham.
Nope. The tribe of Dan was established after the conquest.
In fact, it was long after the conquest.
That's exactly why I said that first.
There we go. Okay, so there's no evidence.
There's no evidence that the person that is named after is the son of Israel, but it's not. It's another person named Dan.
It's not. Okay, that's just a nonsense claim in history.
You can't find me any evidence that there was a location named Dan before the Iron Age.
Well, before the Late Bronze Age.
You're just making up stuff now.
No, I'm not saying anything.
The location of Dan was established by the tribal allotment of Dan in the Bible, which means Moses didn't write it, because Moses died before the tribal allotment was given.
Again, you're assuming that that Dan that they're talking to was named after the son of Israel, and it was not. It was a different Dan.
Yes.
That established a city state in the northernmost region of Israel.
It just happened to be named Dan.
And then hundreds and hundreds of years later, a guy named Dan, who had a people group named after him called Dan, reestablished the exact same people group in the exact same location.
That's what you think happened?
I don't believe it was the exact same location, but I believe that's a possibility.
That's crazy. That's crazy.
So the fact of the matter is, there was no tribe of Dan up there until the Israelites established it.
That's just factually untrue.
It also says crazy things as well.
So, for example, in the book of Genesis, it talks about, was it chapter 36?
Give me a second to find the passage.
There we go.
Yeah, chapter 36, 31 was the one I was thinking of.
It says, These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the Israelites.
Wow, it really seems like whoever wrote this wrote after the Israelites had their first king.
No, the first five books of the Bible are history and a chronology, just like the book of Kings and Judges and Chronicles.
You didn't hear what I said.
It's a chronology.
Whoever's writing here says that these are the kings who reigned in Edom, in the land of Edom, before any king reigned over Israel.
So whoever's writing this knows that there have been kings in Israel.
There were.
Yeah, and he's talking about them in the past tense.
He's saying before any king reigned in the land of Edom.
That's the kings of Edom, not the kings of Israel.
Keep reading.
Before what?
Before any kings reigned over Israel.
Yes, and when was there a king in Israel?
Who's the first king?
There were no kings, there were judges.
Yes, and when was the first king?
Deborah.
No, Deborah was a judge.
Who was the first king?
I mean, I'll take that.
I mean, everyone knows it here except for the guest.
Go ahead, Deb.
Samuel.
Nope, he was a prophet.
Samuel was a king.
No, he wasn't.
And Saul was a king.
Saul was the first king.
He was anointed by Samuel, and that was hundreds of years after Moses.
That's around the turn of the century, around 1000.
So, whoever wrote this obviously wrote after Israel had some kings because he's saying
that some things happened, and these things happened before any king had yet to reign
over Israel.
So it's clearly not Moses.
And we've literally just begun.
Do you think that Moses wrote about his own death?
No.
Oh, you don't think so?
So he couldn't have written that portion.
What about Numbers 12-3?
It says, the man Moses was very humble, more so than anyone else on the face of the
earth.
Do you think Moses wrote that he was the most humble man on earth?
Did you hear my question?
Yes, and I think that if you write a biography about yourself that it's possible for
you to do so, to relate yourself into the third person.
So you think Moses literally wrote that he is the most humble man on earth?
Mine says meat, but yeah, I agree with that.
Okay, so the most humble man on earth said that he's the most humble man on earth.
Is it humble to brag about yourself?
That's not boasting or bragging.
Okay, so when he says he's the most humble man on earth, that's not boasting
or bragging.
Okay.
No.
Fantastic.
And what do we do?
Oh, shoot.
I just copy and pasted.
All right, I copied one I should have pasted.
Let me grab another verse.
Leviticus 8-21 is really interesting.
It says, after the entrails, this is referring to the Levitical sacrifices,
what to do with the animals.
After the entrails and the legs were washed with water, Moses turned into smoke
the rest of the ram on the altar.
It was a burnt offering for a pleasing odor, an offering made by fire to the Lord,
as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Why is Moses constantly writing about himself in the third person?
Can you find a single historical work in all of history where this is how the story
is told, a person writing about himself in the third person?
The Autobiography of Malcolm X.
I actually haven't read that.
Anyone here read that one?
Does Malcolm X write the entire story in the third person?
Yes, he does.
So he doesn't say I in the book.
Frederick Douglass did the same thing.
You might be right.
I haven't read it.
I don't know.
Anyone else here actually read that?
I'm going to pull it up.
I guarantee I can get a PDF copy of it.
I'm hearing a lot of people in the comments have read it and said that's not what
happened.
They said it's in the first person.
Are you lying to me right now?
Oops.
So this is being told by Alex Haley, not by Malcolm X.
So when you say that, perfect.
So when you say that, is it possible that Moses could have...
I'm sure you're aware of the Koran, how the Prophet Muhammad transcribed...
He didn't actually transcribe the Koran because he was illiterate, but what he
did was he told his brother and his brother wrote it down.
Now, is it possible that Moses could have told this story to someone else,
possibly Aaron, possibly non, and they wrote it down for him?
It's possible.
We have no evidence of it.
Also, Malcolm X's autobiography is in the first person.
I remember waking up to the sound of my mother's screaming again.
When I scrambled out, I saw the place in the living room.
They were there trying to calm her down.
The whole thing's in the first person.
You need to repent for lying.
Perhaps a bigger point here is that just because something is possible doesn't mean
it's likely.
The time to believe is after sufficient evidence.
If you start with the assumption that it has to be this belief, then yeah,
you're going to come to that conclusion.
But then that just says, do you actually care about the truth over being
comfortable with what you're trying to do?
Yeah, it sounds to me like he's, rather than saying this is the best
answer for the evidence that we have, he's trying to run towards,
well, as long as it's possible, then it's still true.
But something being possible doesn't make it true.
What makes it likely to be true is whether or not the evidence actually
points towards it.
Exodus chapter 3, verse 13.
Then Moses said to God, if I, I come to the people of Israel and say to
them, the God of your fathers has sent me to you.
And they asked me, what is the name?
What shall I say to them?
Yeah, because it's recording a conversation of Moses.
And that's what Moses said.
So that's what we agree on.
Yeah, it said Moses said something.
So that is possibly it was written by someone else.
It's clearly written by somebody else.
No, I don't believe it's verbalized by Moses because the author knows
things that Moses wouldn't have known.
And it also gets facts wrong.
For example, it says that they built the storehouses of Pitham and
Ramses.
That could only be true if whoever was writing was writing after the
1200s.
But Moses, according to the Bible, made an Exodus in the 1400s.
So 200 years off.
That was around 1256.
The Exodus was around 1256.
Not according to First Kings.
Have you read First Kings?
I have.
And what does it say?
I'll put it on the screen.
First Kings, Chapter 6.
In the 480th year after the Israelites came out of the land of Egypt,
in the fourth year of Solomon's reign over Israel,
in the month of Ziv, which is the second month,
he began to build the house of the Lord.
So according to First Kings, Chapter 6,
the Exodus was 480 years prior to Solomon beginning the building of the
temple.
And that started in 970 BCE.
So all he's got to do then is take 970 and figure out what 480 years is.
It puts you right in the middle of the 1400s.
Yep.
1450.
So no way they built the storehouses of Pitham's and Ramses when
Ramses was still 200 years away from being born.
There's no...
What's that, Phil?
I said darn those pesky facts.
I know, right?
There's just no evidence in the book that Moses wrote it.
Like you only believe Moses wrote it because you want to believe Moses wrote it,
but the evidence doesn't point towards that.
Okay, next.
All right.
We'd also do Genesis 21, which is highly anachronistic.
It says, When they made a covenant at Beersheba,
Abimelek, with Fakol, the commander of his army,
left and returned to the land of the Philistines.
But the Philistines hadn't existed in the land of Israel until the
There was no Philistines at the time of Abraham and Abimelek.
So whoever wrote this obviously wrote after the Philistines entered the land.
So it's not just not from Moses.
It's also just not true.
And it's full of other errors.
Like the Messiah in this book can't quote the Old Testament correctly.
He misquotes it every time.
He didn't fulfill any prophecies.
Daniel Silva, thank you for the super chat.
Daniel says, Debate Sam Shamoon and God Logic.
WrestleMania.
Yeah.
I mean, listen, I'll debate anybody.
I don't really care who it is, but I can't control who comes on the platform, you know.
Do you believe that the earth stood still, according to Joshua chapter 10?
I do.
What would happen if the earth stopped rotating?
It would sink out of orbit.
They'd do a lot of things.
Yeah.
The Philistines first appear in historical records around 1200 BCE.
So I said 1170 during the collapse.
And Moses lived in the 1400s according to 1 Kings chapter 6.
So there's no way that Moses wrote about the Philistines.
So since the Bible was written in Hebrew, the Torah anyway, they were referring to the HaPeleshim.
And that was the tribe that proceeded to Philistines.
So when you translate that word into English, as the Bible is written, that we can understand it.
That race was there.
Which race?
And that's who they were referring to.
The HaPeleshim.
That's not actually what's in the Hebrew, if I had to take a guess.
Let me see what's actually there.
Yeah, the Philistines.
Philishtim.
That's what it says.
Yes.
Philishtim.
Yeah.
The Philistines.
They didn't exist at the time of Moses, so I'm trying to tell you.
Whoever wrote the book of Genesis lived after the Philistines entered the land.
Next.
All right.
Let's do one of my favorites.
Do you think that God is perfectly just?
I do.
Do you think that God would execute people that didn't commit a crime?
So God is just, and he also executes people even though they haven't committed a crime.
The person's definition of a crime varies from person to person.
God's law is concrete.
If that person does not honor God's law, then they're guilty of committing a crime.
That's what I'm saying.
For someone who hasn't committed the crime that they're accused of.
What crime didn't they commit?
I'll show you.
Suppose a man marries a woman, but after going into her dislikes her, makes up charges against her, slandering her by saying,
I married this woman, but when I lay with her I did not find evidence of her virginity.
The father of the young woman and her mother shall then submit the evidence of the young woman's virginity to the elders of the city at the gate.
And the father of the young woman shall say to the elders,
I gave my daughter in marriage to this man, but he dislikes her.
Now he's made up charges against her, saying I did not find evidence of your daughter's virginity.
But here is the evidence of my daughter's virginity.
Then they shall spread out the cloth before the elders of the town.
So the test here is that if she bled on a cloth during their first nuptials, then she was a virgin.
And if she didn't bleed on the cloth, then she wasn't a virgin.
Were we tracking so far?
Apparently, God didn't know that only 42% of women bleed their first time.
Yeah, that's the first problem.
Also, Claudia, thank you for the 666. Big W, Claudia. Big W, 666.
So, only a half of women actually bleed the first time they do the deed.
Hey Justin, there's some technical difficulties and we can't mute the mic. Can you mute us?
Yeah, I got you. I got you.
All right, we're good.
So now let's look at the punishments, right?
If the guy is lying that she actually was a virgin,
it says that the elders of the town are going to take the man and they're going to punish him.
And they're going to fine him a hundred shekels and then she's his permanent wife.
But if she's lying, it says if however the charge is true that evidence of the young woman's virginity was not found,
then they'll bring the young woman out to the entrance of her father's house
and the men of the town will stone her until she's done alive.
So if he lies, he pays a fine. If she lies, she gets executed.
That's the second problem.
I agree with the feminist age and all of that,
that the inequality for the punishments between males and females in the Hebrew age were unjust,
but that's just the way that they were.
So God was unjust?
No.
God gave the command.
Have you read Deuteronomy? Do you know that God, all the commands come from God?
Deuteronomy chapter 4 verses 1 through 2 says,
So now Israel, give heed to the statutes and ordinances that I am commanding you to observe,
so that you may live to enter and occupy the land that the Lord the God of your ancestors is giving you.
You must neither add anything to what I am commanding you nor take anything away from it,
but keep the commandments of the Lord your God with which I am charging you.
So all the commands given in Deuteronomy are from God.
Yes, they are.
So God said to execute women that don't bleed on their wedding night,
and he sentenced 50% of them to their own execution knowing that they didn't do anything wrong.
That's not the case.
That is the case.
He said in that instance, if a man claims that his woman was not a virgin,
then that was the punishment if she was lying and saying,
I am a virgin and she was found not to be, if she was lying.
And what's the proof?
What you're implying is that the 50% of the women who didn't bleed automatically were brought into that court,
and that allegation was made against them, and that's just not true.
What I'm saying is according to the text, if an allegation is made...
If an allegation is made, there's a key point.
Yes, and I never said every single time that a man charged his woman if she didn't bleed.
No one ever made that claim.
What I'm saying is that when this happens, when a woman is brought up on charges,
only about 50% of them are actually going to be guilty.
Okay, and out of those 50%, how many of their husbands are actually going to bring that case to the elders
and actually say, okay, she's not a virgin?
It doesn't matter.
That's highly unlikely.
No, it's quite likely because we know it was happening because the Jewish rabbis wrote about it in the Talmud.
So it doesn't matter how often it happened.
If it happened only twice, it's still too much.
No, she broke the law.
If she lied, she broke the law.
If he lied, he broke the law and he paid a fine.
If she lied, she got executed.
That's God's law.
I know it's God's law and it's barbaric.
If you get pulled over, let's say this.
If you get pulled over and you don't have a license on you or whatever the case may be and you receive a traffic ticket,
then you might feel that that is jest or ingest.
If a totally different person gets pulled over under the same circumstances and they face a different punishment,
then they might feel that it is unjust.
Looking at the two together, one might say, okay, this is fair and this is not.
David, we're talking about executing women.
We're not talking about paying a fine.
We're talking about executing a woman.
And according to the regulation given, only half of them would have actually been guilty.
I agree at that point.
Okay, so your God's a monster.
Not at all.
Okay, so why is he executing women that are innocent?
He doesn't execute them.
The people execute them.
It was just his commandment.
But God told him to do it.
In fact, he says you must do it.
He didn't give them the option.
He says you must do it.
So you shall purge the evil from your midst, he says.
That's God's command.
He didn't say you get to do it.
He says you must do it.
So God is commanding these young women to go to their death, knowing that only half of them would have actually committed the crime.
Now, I don't even care if they did commit the crime.
Even if they did commit the crime, I don't think they should be stoned.
If they committed the crime, they lied.
No, incorrect.
And also, if they committed the crime, that means they lied.
This is what it says.
If they're found guilty, if they're found guilty, what's the evidence?
What is the evidence?
David, what is the evidence?
The evidence is that she lied about her virginity.
No, that's the claim.
All right, I'll fix you up here in a second, David.
Daniel Silva, thank you for the $5 super chat.
Daniel says, to the caller, are you God's advocate?
You're bending the rules for God's image.
Isn't it unjust to virgins who don't bleed, he gave the order to?
Yeah.
That's what I'm trying to say here, David.
The only evidence that you need to execute a woman is whether or not she bleeds on a sheet.
And we know physiologically that only half of women, actually slightly less than half of women, actually bleed their first time.
Which means if a case is brought, and they were, only half of the women found guilty would have been actually guilty in real life.
Do you understand the problem here, David?
I'm not sure he grasps the severity of the situation.
Well, guys, while David's trying to figure out his unmute button, thank you for being here.
Let's tap and share and like.
You are muted, David.
Yes, I can't unmute you.
You have to unmute yourself.
I see your comment.
You got to unmute yourself, my man.
OK.
There we go.
Can you hear me?
Yeah.
So do you understand that according to the rules given, innocent women would have been executed?
They wouldn't be innocent.
Let me tell you why.
Because first they lied, and then it speaks to the woman.
David, how do you know if they lied?
It speaks to the woman.
David, I'm stopping you.
How do you know if the woman lied?
What is the test?
He doesn't get it.
Or he's just spiraling out.
The test is in the Hebrew culture as well as the Muslim culture.
When a woman is given, they are tested.
If you're aware of anatomy and physiology, you know that a female has a hymen.
That's not true.
That's true in modern times.
It's not true of what happened here in the text.
It doesn't say in the text that she's going to be examined.
None of that said.
It says that the only evidence you need is the sheet.
That's it.
It doesn't say nothing about inspecting anybody's vajayjay.
That's what was done back then in order to validate that.
Prove it.
So now you're just making stuff up.
I'm not making it up. That's what it was.
Then why do they need the sheet?
That's where the sheet came from.
The sheet's not from the inspection.
The sheet is from what happens when you go into your wife.
That's why it says when he goes into her.
David, you're lying and you're making stuff up again on the Bible.
Without lies, Christianity dies, guys.
There's no lie here.
There's a lie.
The only evidence you need is whether or not she bled on that sheet.
Now that I've got you, I want to talk about my absolute favorite topic
because we can talk about how barbaric your God is
and you'll make excuses for your barbaric God every day of the week, I'm sure of it.
But I want to talk about my favorite topic ever
and that is what prophecies did Jesus actually fulfill?
613 prophecies in the book of Daniel, in the book of Isaiah, in the book of Psalms, in the book of Joel, in the book of Hosea.
Can you name one of them?
Malachi.
Name one of them. Stop yapping and name one.
I'm going to Isaiah 53.
This is not going to turn out well for you.
Have you read all of Isaiah?
I have.
Okay, and do you know when I say something like first Isaiah and second Isaiah, do you know what that means?
When you imply the number before the book, that implies that there are more than one book, that there is only one book of Isaiah.
That's not what that means.
So when I say first Isaiah and second Isaiah and third Isaiah, I'm referring to the section of the text.
So the section that I'm referring to is second Isaiah, specifically is Isaiah 40 all the way to chapter 55.
And do you want to know why it's called second Isaiah?
Go ahead and explain.
It's called second Isaiah because it was written 200 years after Isaiah, the first half was written.
So the prior chapters of Isaiah were written before the Assyrian invasion.
And the chapters in second Isaiah are written just prior, if not just after the Persians marched in under the leadership of King Cyrus.
So either one of two things is true.
Either Isaiah lived for over 200 years or there were multiple authors.
Either way, it doesn't matter to me if he authored or not.
I only bring that up because second Isaiah puts together a very coherent section of text.
What is being addressed in second Isaiah is not the same events that are being addressed in first Isaiah.
What's being addressed in second Isaiah is the release of the captives from Babylon and how God is going to restore his people after the Babylonian captivity.
Also good to see a good faith, Gary.
Yes.
Glad to be here for a good faith dialectic as always.
Well, he tried to defend how his God is still good, even though he executes virgins innocently.
But you're going to have a little bit of that.
Can I get a critique?
No, I'm kidding.
Here's one.
Here's one if you're listening.
Are you listening?
Yeah, we're listening.
Isaiah 54.
Isaiah 55 verse 8.
Yeah, I'm sure you want to skip ahead.
No, for my thoughts are not your thoughts.
Neither are your ways my ways.
That's adorable.
All right.
So let's read Isaiah 41.
Says, but you Israel, my servant, Jacob, whom I've chosen, the offspring of Abraham, my friend.
Who's the servant in Isaiah 41 8 through 9?
Just so you know, David, when you angrily flip the pages, we can't hear anything other
than page flipping.
I'm not up to speed on the internet yet.
I'm still using the original Bible.
That's okay.
I'm just saying that your page flipping is loud.
Also, Conquistador, thank you for the $5 super chat.
Conquistador says, why couldn't God make a nice happy people prophecy like petting
a cow or something?
Why is everything revolved around death or something of that kind?
He did.
In Psalms, he says that the cow shall lie with the, the lamb shall lie with the wolf
and the snake and the lion and all of that.
That's Isaiah, Isaiah chapter 2, 11 and Micah 4.
Yeah.
Okay.
So in Isaiah 41 8 through 9, who is, who's the servant?
It's on the screen right here.
The servant is the people of Israel.
Oh, gotcha.
Okay.
Gotcha.
So the servant is Israel.
In 43 10, it says, you are my witnesses, says the Lord and my servant who I have
chosen.
Who's he talking to?
The people of Israel.
Okay.
So the people of Israel is the servant.
Gotcha.
Okay.
Isaiah 44 1 says, but here are now, O Jacob, my servant in Israel, whom I have chosen.
Who's the servant here?
The people of Israel.
Oh, gotcha.
Jacob and Israel are the same person.
Okay.
Yeah.
Remember these things, O Jacob and Israel.
You are my servant.
That's 44 21.
So it's still Israel.
Okay.
So for the sake of my servant, Jacob, and Israel, my chosen, I call you by your name.
So in 45 verse 4, it's Israel, the servant?
It's the same thing.
Gotcha.
44, sorry, 48 20.
Go out from Babylon.
Flee from Chaldea.
Declare this with a shout of joy and proclaim it.
Send it forth to the ends of the earth and say the Lord has redeemed his servant,
Jacob.
Who's the servant here?
Jacob and Israel are the same person who's talking about the tribe of Israel.
Sure.
So it almost seems like in 2nd Isaiah, there's a theme building that the servant
is the nation of Israel and God is doing something rather spectacular with the nation
of Israel.
So when I get to 53, why would I read that the servant is anybody but the nation
of Israel when he keeps telling you over and over again that it's not Israel
and it's not a messiah, it's actually Israel?
Why would he just ignore all the context of 2nd Isaiah and just say,
oops, now that we're in a new chapter, the servant somehow, his magic identity
is now different?
Because that's going to be the new one.
That's going to be the new servant.
How do you know?
He's talking about the messiah.
Does it say the messiah?
Because there's only one messiah ever mentioned in 2nd Isaiah and his name
is Cyrus.
The only king, the only messiah ever mentioned is King Cyrus.
It doesn't say anything about King David in 2nd Isaiah sitting on the throne,
nothing of that nature.
He is mentioned in Isaiah chapter 11 and chapter 2 though.
So Isaiah 53 clearly couldn't be about Jesus when it's about the nation
of Israel.
Thank you, Evan.
I appreciate the drinks and the turkey.
Gobble, gobble, gobble.
Did you have anything else?
Zachariah 99, Micah 5-2, Isaiah 7-14, Jeremiah 31-15, Psalm 8-2, Psalm 22-16,
Genesis 3-15.
That's talking about Jesus.
Which one?
All of them.
All of them?
Let's go to my favorite, one of my favorites here.
I love Zachariah 99 and Good Faith Gary probably knows this one.
Gary, have you ever read a donkey before?
Have I ever rode a donkey?
I can't say that I have, no.
I've rode a donkey and you're about to find out that that makes me the messiah.
Because it says, according to Matthew 21, it says that Jesus rode that donkey
in order to fulfill what was written by the prophets.
And this is what he quoted.
Rejoice greatly, O daughter Zion.
Shout aloud, O daughter Jerusalem.
See, your king comes to you, triumphant and victorious is he, humble.
Riding on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey, he will cut off the chariot from Ephraim
and the war horse from Jerusalem.
And the battle bow will be cut off, and he shall command peace to the nations.
And his dominion shall be from sea to sea, from the river to the ends of the earth.
Was Jesus a victorious king who cut off all war from Ephraim and Israel?
Yes.
Oh, I'd love to see the citation for that.
Please show me where Jesus was an actual king that ended all war in Israel.
Yeah, I'm dying to know the verse.
Yeah, I mean, the guy's got the name Yeshua in his screen, so maybe he knows more than I do.
Maybe there's like a special Hebrew translation.
You're thinking of the literal war, a literal war between Ephraim and Israel.
Oh, it's figurative.
Oh, there's not a war.
That hasn't happened yet.
Okay, so then the prophecy's not fulfilled, so Matthew lied.
The prophecy will be fulfilled.
But it wasn't fulfilled, which means Matthew lied.
No, just that part. He's talking about nine.
Oh, the part about riding the donkey was fulfilled.
Yes.
Oh, shit, I told you. I'm the Messiah. I rode a donkey.
I rode a donkey twice. That makes me the Messiah. Thank you very much. I appreciate that.
Cool. I didn't need any worship, but since you're here, David, I wouldn't stop you if you prayed to me right now.
You're welcome to pray to me, though.
I can't guarantee that I'll answer your prayer because I work in mysterious ways, though.
Emre, thank you for the glasses.
I pray to God and God alone.
I'm sure you do.
All right, let's look at another lie from the New Testament.
One of my favorites is Jeremiah 31, and Jeremiah 31-15 doesn't get a lot of love.
That's the Old Testament.
That's where the prophecies come from.
It's quoted in Matthew chapter 2, verse 28.
You can test my memory on that. I'm pretty sure that's where it's at.
So it says in Matthew chapter 2, verse 28, that the women were weeping over all the children that were executed in and around Bethlehem in order to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah.
And then it quotes Jeremiah 31-15.
It says, Thus saith the Lord, a voice is heard in Ramah, lamentation and bitter weeping.
Rachel is weeping for her children.
She refuses to be comforted for her children because they are no more.
Thus saith the Lord, keep your voice from weeping, your eyes from tears, for there is reward for your work, says the Lord, they shall come back from the land of the enemy.
Oops.
Jeremiah is writing just prior to the Babylonian invasion in 605.
And he's comforting the mothers that are about to watch their children get exiled saying you don't have to cry.
They're going to come back.
And you know in Jeremiah, as well as I do, that they were only supposed to be gone for 70 years and then they were going to come back.
That's the whole crux of the Jeremiah prophecy.
So this is not about a messiah whatsoever.
This is about the Jewish people going into exile and comforting the weeping mothers.
So I'm like really trying to figure out how these dead babies in Bethlehem fulfilled this prophecy when this prophecy had nothing to do with dead babies during the time of the Messiah.
You're speaking about when Herod came and he killed all of the children under the age of two in Bethlehem in the region of Judea.
That's what it says.
And that's where they got the context from, yes.
But the context of the prophecy is not about the Messiah or about Bethlehem.
It's about the women watching their children going into the Babylonian exile and being comforted that they're going to come back.
Nothing to do with the Messiah.
So again, Matthew's a liar.
No.
Oh, OK, it's wrong, but he's not a liar.
Matthew just made a mistake.
His readings not so good.
Have you considered?
No.
Actually, the retort that I get and it's a very effective one.
The retort I get the most is na-ah.
Also, Claudia, thank you for the 666.
Big W, Claudia.
I appreciate the 666.
Also, Kayla, thank you for the five dollars.
Kayla says, Hail Lilith, the wife of Adam, first wife of Adam, great mother and the succubi.
Yeah, I think it's succubus.
Depending which language you're in, succubi would be plural in Latin, but that's neither here nor there.
So I want to read perhaps another prophecy that you might have heard.
And I want your take on it.
This is Hosea chapter 11.
I forgot my 11.
There we go.
When Israel was a child, I loved him.
And out of Egypt, I called my son.
And the more that I called them, the more that they went for me.
And they kept sacrificing to the Baals and offering incense to idols.
Is this a history about the Exodus?
Is that what's happening here?
No.
Oh, no.
So when God said in Exodus 422 that Israel is my firstborn son and he's freeing them from Egypt, that's not what this is referring to?
No.
Exodus 422, you shall say to Pharaoh, thus saith the Lord, Israel is my firstborn son.
That's what's obviously happening here.
You have Flanker 420.
Is the classic Christian defense?
No.
Okay.
So clearly Hosea is referencing Exodus 422 when the firstborn son of God left Egypt.
When Israel was a child, I loved him.
And out of Egypt, I called my son.
And then what happened after they left Egypt?
Do you remember?
They wandered the wilderness for 40 years.
And they built a calf.
They worshiped idols, which is why it says the more that I called them, the more that they went for me.
And they kept sacrificing to the Baals and offering incense to idols, which describes exactly what they did.
Okay.
So this is just history.
There's no prophecy here.
I'm guessing that that was the way that Matthew interpreted it.
Matthew just looked at anything he could find in the Old Testament that sounded vaguely familiar to Jesus.
And then he just called it a prophecy.
But as it turns out, telling the story of the Exodus is not a prophecy.
That's called history.
Matthew is the worst exegete on the planet ever.
In fact, I had a professor in Bible college that joked that if you turn in an exegesis paper that uses the same level of exegesis as the New Testament authors, you will get an F.
That's how bad the New Testament authors exegeted the Old Testament, that even Christian professors know how bad it is.
I agree.
So again, we've got a big problem that Matthew keeps telling lies.
But how does that relate to Jesus and God telling lies?
Because is the book from God?
Did God inspire Matthew to say true things or false things?
The New Testament is not inspired by God.
Holy shit!
The authors of the synoptic gospels wrote a testimony of the things that they saw.
Yeah, but they said that Jesus did things in order to fulfill prophecies.
So when they said that, they weren't telling the truth.
He just admitted that the New Testament is a lie.
I'm glad we can finally come to some kind of agreement.
I'm still here. I'm listening.
I'm saying we finally got some agreement.
The New Testament is not true. It's full of lies.
Not all of it.
Okay, but some of it.
Some of it.
Okay, throw it out. Dump it.
If it's got lies in it, I don't want it.
If I bring you a glass of water and I told you I only spit and part of it, are you going to drink it?
No.
Yeah, right?
If the Bible is full of things that aren't true, I'm not likely to believe that this book is divinely inspired or is revealing some sort of sacred truth or anything of that nature.
But it's not full of lies.
But it is. We just read a bunch of prophecies that clearly weren't prophecies about Jesus.
And it gets history wrong.
We already know that.
It says that the earth is flat and there's a dome over top of it.
Do you think the earth is flat?
It doesn't say that if the earth is flat.
In Job it says that the earth is a sphere.
No, it doesn't.
Job 38-14 said it's formed like clay beneath a seal.
Do you know what clay beneath a seal looks like?
It said it's a sphere and it rests in the firmament.
No, it doesn't.
It doesn't say that.
It says in Job 38 that the earth takes on form like clay under a seal and stands out like a garment.
And this is what a clay seal looks like.
That is the seal of Hezekiah.
It looks strangely just like what people in the ancient world thought the earth looked like.
Isn't that weird?
There's not a single passage in the Bible that says the earth is a sphere.
And you're confusing Job with Isaiah 40 verse 22 that says it's a disk.
It doesn't say it's a sphere.
The Hebrew word chag doesn't mean sphere.
It means a disk or a circle.
And in the case of the earth, it's clearly a disk because circles are hollow and disks are not.
I think Gary might have something to add.
Gary, you got anything to add to this?
Oh, just that it seems pretty silly to accept the book if so much of it is just so wrong.
I don't know.
If everything that it says is wrong, if it's just wrong about all of it, then what's the point of any of it?
Yeah.
What percent of the Bible would need to be false for you to no longer believe in it?
Are you asking me a question?
Yeah.
What percent of the Bible would need to be false for you to no longer believe in it?
The words of the Bible as you're relating them as false is not what makes me not believe in the Bible.
The teachings in the Bible are what I believe in.
So if the Bible was 100% false, would you still believe in it?
This is not a hard question.
On the contrary, Doug is always hard.
Praise Doug.
Yeah, the problem is, if the Bible is not completely true, we have a big problem.
We have to figure out how many untrue things does the book need to say before we just say the book's not reliable.
Also, thank you, Kayla, for all the lives.
I appreciate that.
And Lisa.
What's our tipping point?
Thank you, Philo.
Big W on the whale.
When you take it out of context, then it becomes a lie.
What's the context that I took out of it?
That's right, Flanker.
Flanker says that that's why flat earthers exist.
They need the earth to be flat to make the Bible literally true.
I agree.
If Christianity disappeared tomorrow, there wouldn't be flat earthers in America.
But how much of the Bible needs to be true before we say that it's trustworthy or untrue before we say that it's just not trustworthy?
One percent.
One percent?
So if one percent of the Bible is untrue, then we can throw it out.
If one percent of the Bible was true, I would believe in it.
Oh, if only one percent of it was true and 99 percent was untrue, you would still believe in it?
Yes.
When are you converting to Islam?
I am not.
Let's go.
Do you like sand?
What is your question?
Well, I'm just saying that there's a location on the other side of the pond where people practice that religion since you're converting to Islam.
I'm not converting to Islam.
You don't want to go be with your people?
You said, listen, the Qur'an is at least one percent true.
I know it's true.
Do you know that Mecca is a real place?
I do.
Do you know what Mecca is?
Well, that's irrelevant.
I'm saying that at least one percent of the Qur'an is true.
So when are you converting to Islam?
Do you know what Mecca is?
I know exactly what it is.
That's irrelevant.
We're talking about whether or not believing something because it's one percent true is a means to hang your whole life on it.
Well, they got the Mecca from the Bible, and that's an actual historical place where Abraham...
Literally no one cares about that.
So we're talking about whether or not you should believe something that's only one percent true.
Why is that?
We're asking, should you believe something that's only one percent true?
And you're saying yes for the Bible, but you won't say it for the Qur'an.
Hebrews 11 and 1.
You can't do it.
You can't bring it.
All right, David, I need you to answer my question.
All right.
If the Qur'an is only one percent true, should we believe it?
People believe it.
That's not an answer.
That is not an answer, man, man.
David, I have a question for you.
So if you bought a book on how to fix your car and only one percent of it was correct, but 99 percent was correct, would you trust that book on how to fix your car?
I would apply the part that works.
How would you know?
But that didn't answer the question.
That didn't answer my question, David.
My question is, would you trust the book on how to fix your car?
If you knew you were well aware that 99 percent of the book was false, I think you can answer the question.
I would take the information that I knew was false and I wouldn't apply it.
And I would apply the information that was true.
But you don't know what's true and what's false when you first get the book.
You just know that only one percent of it's true.
So why would you buy a book knowing that 99 percent of it's not true?
When you did your research as your rovers, you took out the things and you kind of elaborate on the things that you know are false.
But you steer away, like whenever I start a conversation about the things that have been found true, you steer away from that and you keep focusing on just the things that are false.
Well, I never said the Bible is 100 percent false.
So that's never been a claim of mine.
I've never claimed the Bible is 100 percent false.
OK, so that's the part that we should go with, the parts that are true.
How do you know what parts are true?
Most of them are historically accurate.
Like what?
Daniel, thank you for the 200 super chat.
Daniel says he will die on the road and go to heaven.
I don't, I'm sorry, Daniel, I may not understand what you're saying there.
So listen, if the Bible is only one percent true, it doesn't matter that it got a couple of things right.
A dead clock is right twice a day.
It means nothing to me.
The fact that like Jerusalem exists or King David existed doesn't mean anything to me because this book is talking about someone's eternal salvation and that if you don't believe what is written in the book that you'll burn forever in eternity.
That's not what it says.
That's not what grace is at all.
Yeah, you will love Jesus.
Grace is not.
You'll love Jesus or you will burn.
Believe in the Bible.
It says you will love Jesus or you will burn.
Now we can talk.
Yes.
OK, and that's horrific.
That is not because the book that attests to his existence is just demonstrably saying things that are untrue.
So I have no reason to believe that Jesus is the Messiah or the son of God, which means that God gave me faulty information to make decisions on.
So if God is going to give us faulty information to make our decisions on and then he burns us for all of eternity because of those decisions, then he's a barbarian.
Will you allow me to elaborate on that?
Awesome.
So the message from God is this.
God says that I gave you my law.
I wrote it on your hearts and it is up to you to follow that law.
And in consequence of that law, what I'm doing is I'm offering you salvation through my salvation.
Yahweh, salvation of God, God saves.
Did you say Yahweh?
Yes, Yeshua.
You say Yeshua, Jesus.
So in that salvation, you have this option.
You can believe and accept my salvation or you cannot.
And you can suffer the consequences of sin.
Where did you learn all this?
Through teachings.
From where?
From the Torah and from the Bible.
Oh, from the Bible, the thing that's not true.
Okay.
Let's make sure we're aware.
So again, it all goes back to the Bible.
The Bible's not true, then neither is Christianity.
Christianity is very true.
Christianity just means follower of Christ.
I know.
And the edict of the teachings of Jesus, that's what the foundation of Christianity is.
Christianity is not reading the Bible.
Is it okay to eat meat sacrificed to idols?
No.
It's okay to sacrifice to God.
No, no.
I asked you, is it okay to eat meat that has been sacrificed to idols?
No.
Okay, so in 1 Corinthians chapter 8, Paul was lying.
He was talking about meat eaters.
He says, if you come upon people who eat meat, and you do not, and you choose not to, and that's your lifestyle, you don't have to follow them.
Let them do them.
You follow God's commandments.
David, I don't know why you keep lying on my live.
I'm going to call you out every time.
It says, therefore concerning the eating of things offered to idols.
It's not about me eating meat.
It's about eating meat offered to idols.
It says, we know that an idol is nothing in the world and that there is no other God but the one.
For even there are so-called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, as there are many gods and many lords, yet for us there is one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we for him and one Lord Jesus Christ, through whom all things are and through whom we live.
However, there is not in everyone that knowledge, for some with consciousness of idols, or of the idol until now, eat it as a thing offered to an idol, and their conscious being weak is defiled.
But food does not commend us to God, neither if we eat or if we...
Holy crap, I butchered that one.
But food does not commend us to God, for neither if we eat are we the better, nor if we do not eat are we the worse.
But beware, lest somehow this liberty of yours becomes a stumbling block for those who are weak.
So he's saying to the Corinthian church, you are at liberty to eat the meat as long as you don't actually believe that this meat was sacrificed to a literal god.
That's not what that says.
It says that they are at liberty.
It says, but beware lest somehow this liberty of yours, liberty to do what?
To be a stumbling block to those who are weak.
No.
You have to read the entire sentence.
He says, beware lest somehow this liberty of yours becomes a stumbling block.
Not liberty to be a stumbling block.
Will you eat the rest of it?
Yeah, it says, for if anyone sees you who have knowledge, eating in an idol's temple, will not the conscious of him who is weak be emboldened to eat those things offered to idols?
And because of your knowledge, shall the weak both perish for whom Christ died?
But when you thus sin against the brethren and wound the weak conscience, you sin against Christ.
Therefore, if food makes my brother stumble, I will never eat meat lest I make my brother stumble.
So Paul is saying you are at liberty in order to eat the meat.
You have the liberty, but not everybody has the same understanding as you.
So be aware that when you're taking advantage of this liberty that you're not doing so in a way that would cause somebody else to stumble.
They have it in the law, and it's in most statutes in most states.
Ignorance of the law does not necessarily grant you liberty from the law.
Buddy, we're talking about whether or not these people are at liberty to eat the meat.
That's where I'm going with that.
What he's saying is just because you don't understand that it's a sin, it's at you.
But once you understand and realize that that's a sin, then it's for you to make that decision to not do it.
Did Paul say it's a sin?
Also, MRK, thank you for the subbing.
He says, food does not commend us to God, for neither if we eat are we the better, nor if we do not eat are we the worse.
He's literally making the case for why you can eat the meat.
Nicholas has a super chat on YouTube.
Nicholas says, would you see the rapture as evidence?
Rapture is in a few weeks.
Nicholas, I literally cannot wait for the rapture to happen.
Get you, Christian, out of here.
We can finally make some progress.
So it literally says here that the food sacrificed to the idols doesn't bring you any closer or further from God.
And then he says that you are at liberty.
He says, beware of this liberty of yours.
What's the liberty to do?
Whether to make that choice, whether to eat the food sacrificed to idols.
That's right. They are at their liberty to eat that meat if they want to because those gods don't actually exist.
They're not real. They're fiction.
Only your God is real.
Only the God of the Israelites are real.
And that God gave us free will.
So if you choose to live the life of sin, then that's up to you.
He didn't say sin.
He didn't say it was a sin.
That's exactly what he said. You have to read it after.
He didn't say it.
Go down.
No, he didn't say it.
He said, causing your brethren to stumble was a sin.
Yes.
And what does it mean to cause your brethren to stumble in this passage?
Doing something that you know is a sin.
No, incorrect.
And inviting them to do.
Not even close. You're wrong.
I'm sorry, how?
Because you haven't listened to it.
I'm going to get a translation that you can understand.
Hold on.
Here we go.
I've got the International Children's Bible.
We'll see if this is easier.
We'll see if this reads easier.
This is the bedazzled edition.
It's got glitter on it.
It's got pictures.
It does have pictures.
Yes, it's got pictures.
Let's see.
It says, so this is what I say about eating meat sacrifice to idols.
We know what an idol is really.
Nothing in the world.
And we know that there is only one God.
It is really not important if there are things called gods in heaven or on earth.
And there are many things that people call gods and lords.
But for us, there is only one God.
He is our father.
All things come from him and we live for him.
And there is only one Lord, Jesus Christ.
All things were made through Jesus Christ.
And we also have life through him.
But not all people know this.
Until now, some people have had the habit of worshipping idols.
So now, when they eat meat, they still feel as if it belongs to an idol.
They are not sure that this is right to eat the meat.
When they eat it, they feel guilty.
But food will not make us closer to God.
Refusing to eat does not make us less pleasing to God.
And eating does not make us better in God's sight.
I'm hoping that you caught that because he's referring to the people who are eating the meat sacrificed to idols.
Because they feel that that's going to bring them closer to their God.
But there is only one God and he does not permit that.
Yes, the people who believe in the idols.
Yes, that's who he's talking to.
No, he's not talking to them.
He's not talking to them.
And they are the ones that are causing their brothers to stumble because they're inviting their brothers to eat the same meat offered to the idols.
You are, again, lying.
So what it literally says is that they are at liberty to eat the meat offered to idols.
But since there are some among them who believe that eating the meat is akin to idolatry,
then you can't cause them to stumble by causing them to eat the meat.
You're saying you're at liberty to do so.
Right. You said the same thing.
You personally are at liberty to eat the meat is what he's saying.
Just don't do it in a way that causes your brethren to stumble.
The brethren are the followers of Christ.
It's some of them who have a background of idolatry.
I wonder if they have the ICB up here.
Maybe the message, maybe we can find the message on here.
Yeah, here's the message.
Maybe this will be easier.
Some people say, quite rightly, that idols have no actual existence.
And there is nothing to them, that there is no God other than our one God,
that no matter how many of these so-called gods are named and worshiped, they still don't add up to anything but a tall story.
Okay, so you understand what he's saying?
You're saying these guys don't really exist.
That's why you're at liberty.
The idols don't exist, correct.
That's why you are at liberty to eat the meat as long as you're not doing it in a way that causes others to stumble.
Correct, we're saying the same thing.
Okay, I'm glad we can finally figure that out.
Okay, so according to Paul then, according to his letter to the Corinthians,
are the brethren who don't believe in these idols, are they allowed to eat the meat?
They are not.
Okay, show me where it says that they're not.
He's talking to the Corinthians.
Yes, the whole Church.
No, the Corinthians Church is the Father of Christ.
He's going to the Church.
He's talking to the Corinthians, to the non-believers.
The Corinthian Church.
No, he's not.
He's quite literally singled them out as a different people group.
He says, it is not everyone, however, who has this knowledge.
Some have become so accustomed to idols until now that they still think of the food they eat as food offered to an idol,
and their conscious being weak is defiled.
Yes.
I literally cannot believe that this is hard for you.
Paul is making a very easy definitive statement.
Because these gods don't actually exist, as long as you don't believe in these gods,
and you don't feel guilty about it, you can eat the meat.
So what are you saying?
Yes, but if you cause the power of Christ, who is not a Corinth, to do the same,
then that's how you're defiling God.
Yes, if you're doing it in a way that causes someone to stumble.
But he didn't say it was a sin.
He says you are at liberty to do it.
Thou shall have no other God before me.
That is a sin.
It doesn't say anything about worshipping idols.
It's talking about eating the meat.
If you sacrifice a meat to something that is not God, then that's basically the same thing.
It doesn't say anything about offering sacrifices.
It's talking about eating the meat that somebody else sacrificed.
Yes, and it says that you're at liberty to do it.
The people of Corinth are at liberty to do it, not the powers of Christ.
No, wrong. It doesn't say that.
It doesn't say that.
David, stop it. David, stop lying on my live.
This letter is not addressed to the Corinthian non-church people.
Also, Solo, thank you for the five dollars.
Solo says, tell guests it's okay.
When I was a Christian, I didn't read my Bible either.
Yeah, that's pretty much how that works.
This letter is addressed to the Corinthian church, not to the Corinthian citizens.
Please stop lying on your book.
Can I also say that maybe Christians should stop reading other people's mail and thinking it was sent to them?
Who does that?
That's breaking man's law. That's not God's law.
God says read everything.
Even like this guy said, he said I should read the Koran.
No, no, no. Even if the letters of Paul were accurate, the Corinthian church doesn't even exist anymore.
No, it does not.
The Church of Corinth, I should say.
They were killed. They were killed.
Why do you think that this applies to you?
What, the worship, eating meat, worship, are provided to idols?
The Church of Corinth, why do you think it applies to you?
The only thing that I'm taking away from that is God's law, which says you should not eat meat that was sacrificed to idols.
Is this a law that aligns with the Old Testament?
It does.
Oh, so if the Old Testament says that something is permissible or not permissible, then that's what it is?
According to the Hebrew faith, yes.
So we were allowed to own slaves then.
Okay, what the American people defined as slavery.
There it goes. There it goes.
And what slavery was back then, they were indentured.
What you did, if you read the book of Genesis, his name was Jacob, and he permitted himself to be an indentured servant to Rebecca's dad for seven years because he wanted to marry Rebecca.
He gave him Leah instead, and he committed himself to another.
We know the story.
Of course, slavery.
We all know the story.
We know the story better than you do, in fact.
Okay, so we're not talking about indentured servants.
We're talking about actual slaves.
It says in Leviticus 25, as for your male and female slaves who you may have, it is from the nations around you that you, sorry, nations around you, from them you may buy male and female slaves.
Moreover, you may buy the children of strangers who dwell among you and their families who are with you, which they beget in your land, and they shall become your property.
And you shall make them as an inheritance for your children, or sorry, you will take them as an inheritance for your children after you, for them to inherit them as a possession, and they will be your permanent slaves.
Yeah.
Forever.
And also it goes into the treatment of those people.
Oh, hold on.
David, David, you're moving the goalpost, and you're lying again.
So right now, it doesn't say indentured servants.
It doesn't say for six years go free in the seventh.
It says they are your permanent slaves.
Do you agree?
I agree.
Okay, so you could have slaves permanently.
You could.
Fantastic. I'm glad we can come.
Okay, so God does condone slavery.
Do you think that slavery is wrong?
In that sense, it was not wrong because he also goes over the treatment of those.
Okay, so slavery is okay as long as you treat your slaves kindly.
Exactly.
Okay.
Should you be allowed to beat your slaves?
No.
Okay.
Because it says that in Leviticus as well.
You can't.
Do you think the problem with American slavery was that they just didn't treat their slaves well enough?
They didn't treat them well at all.
What do you mean?
But if they treated them better, do you think slavery would have been fine?
If they treated them according to the Hebrew law, then it would have been fine.
What?
Hebrew law says you can beat them with a rod.
If they commit a crime.
It didn't say that.
It says if a man beats his male or female servant with a rod and that he is unalived under his hand, he shall surely be punished.
He shall surely be punished. There you go.
Keep reading.
Notwithstanding, if he remains alive for a day or two, he shall not be punished because he is his property.
So if he survived...
He didn't get a rod because he broke the law.
It didn't say that.
It didn't say anything about breaking the law.
He didn't tie him to a post and beat the hell out of him just because of his skin color.
How do you know?
That's a difference.
Oh, the skin color is irrelevant.
We're not talking about that. We're talking about owning slaves and whether or not you can beat them.
Again, Hebrew law defines slavery as different.
It says you can beat them and you can own them for life.
Okay.
That's slavery.
So what was wrong with the Atlantic slave trade?
The people who brought the slaves over were corrupt.
And the people who owned the slaves here were corrupt.
That's totally different.
So good God-fearing people can own slaves.
And treat them correctly, yes.
So you're pro-slavery then as long as it's good people doing it.
I'm pro-slavery as long as they follow the tenets of God and they don't mistreat their slaves.
There we go. We heard it.
Do you think that you should be able to own slaves, David?
Because they feed their slaves.
They take care of their slaves.
They give their slaves housing.
Should you be able to?
And they pay their slaves.
Should you be able to own slaves, David?
You're a good Christian.
You treat your slaves very well.
Should you be able to own them?
He's talking to you.
Oh, you're talking to me?
What was your question?
Okay, what was your question?
Should you be able to own slaves?
If you treat them well, you're a good Christian.
Should you be able to own slaves, you specifically?
Do you want to own slaves?
I don't want to own slaves.
Would you be too cruel of an owner?
I'm confused.
Why wouldn't you want slaves?
I wouldn't be too cruel of an owner.
If the option were given to me and I was able to hire help, then yes, I would.
But I would treat them correctly.
You would own slaves?
I would own slaves and I would treat them correctly.
Oh my God.
What the f-
And again, because the premise that America has put on it through the 400 years that they owned slaves and how they treated them,
people automatically think that's the assumption of owning a slave and how slaves are treated.
They automatically think it's bad.
But the English, when England populated India and Northern Africa, they didn't treat them that way.
They were slaves.
Well, I want to continue this.
But before we do, Aaron, thank you so much for the $50 Super Chat.
Also, Philo Dragon, big W for that, Aaron.
Aaron says, your secular Bible study is the best.
We appreciate you so much.
I really appreciate you as well.
Big W, I appreciate that.
I appreciate you too, sir.
I appreciate you too.
So, David, are you suggesting then that slavery wasn't so bad?
The treatment of the slaves in American culture was bad.
The treatment of the slaves in the West Indian and Caribbean culture was bad.
Should we be allowed to sell our daughters as slaves?
Like if I have a daughter, because Exodus says if a man sells his daughter to be a female slave,
she should not go out as the male slaves do.
Obviously, she gets to be-
Correctly. There you go.
She gets to be, yes.
So we should be allowed to sell our female daughters, our children, as slaves without their consent?
That is under the Hebrew law.
It is different than American law.
Okay, so we should be allowed to do it then.
Yes.
Hey, David, would you be okay with being owned as property?
I'm owned right now.
You should see my job.
I'm very much owned.
I'm underpaid.
Getting owned.
This is a great metaphor.
We're talking about literal, like literally owned.
Would you be okay with literally being legally owned?
Jesus owns me now, yes.
I would be okay with being owned.
Would you be my slave, David?
You're treating me right, absolutely.
Oh, dear God.
Tyler, thank you for the $5.
Tyler says Christianity is an effing joke, and David is the proof.
Listen, David, I love you, but you lost me at slavery is cool,
and that women should be executed for not being virgins.
I'm sure you're a delightful human being.
Women are not executed for being virgins.
They're executed because they broke the law and committed adultery.
Your beliefs are loony tunes.
Dex, thank you for the $5 super chat.
Dex says this is why Christianity is a red flag
and causes good people to defend the most vile things in human history.
No, when bad people do bad things and put it in the name of Christianity, that's why it's bad.
I'm sure.
Yeah, God does terrible things, too.
For example.
God does not.
God is holy.
Do you think that people being punished for other people's crimes is good?
Didn't we already cover this?
No, we did not.
You're talking about the consecration that came from Adam.
No.
When Adam committed sin.
Not even close.
Not even close to what I'm talking about.
Okay, what are you talking about?
What are you talking about?
Yes.
So these 70,000 people paid the price for David's sin.
If you read 1 Chronicles, it'll tell you that Lucifer came to David and he said,
go out and number the people.
Yeah, Satan.
God specifically told David not to do that.
Sure.
Can you show me that passage?
Show me the passage where God said not to do it.
Also, it doesn't matter because David committed the sin, not the people.
And the people were under his rule.
Yeah.
And what was their crime?
Well, their crime was being numbered.
Okay, show me the law where it says that you can't take a census.
Well, you got counted.
I guess that means that you deserve to no longer be alive.
Yeah.
What a terrible human being.
Your king, the guy who has life or death power over you, wants to number you.
And if you agree, God will kill you.
Even though David is supposed to be God's anointed person, you're supposed to listen to what he says.
1 Chronicles chapter 21 verse 1.
Then Satan stood against Israel and incited David to number Israel.
David said to Joab and the commanders of the army.
David, stop.
We've read it.
We know what it says.
I'm asking you, where can I find it where God says don't take a census?
Where's that law?
Because what we find here in the actual passage, David cries out, says when David, I'm sorry.
Then David spoke to the Lord when he saw the angel who was striking the people and he said, surely I have sinned and I have done wickedly.
But these sheep, what have they done?
Let your hand, I pray, be against me and against my father's house.
So David knows that he's the one that sinned.
I agree with that.
So these people were being punished for David's sin.
The people were being punished because they did what David told them to do.
Which was not actually a sin.
There's no law against taking a census.
It's literally the prerogative of the king to do so.
All right, listen, David, I think you've been thoroughly cooked and I've got to get to bed.
I've got a long day tomorrow.